README.md, before:

# Provisioning AWS Spot Instances for Deep Learning using Terraform

Terraform is an open source tool developed by Hashicorp, which allows you to
codify your infrastructure. This means that you can write configuration files,
instead of having to click around in the AWS or any cloud provider's console.
The files are in pure text format, and therefore can be shared, versioned,
peer-reviewed just like any other code. Basically, Terraform is a tool that
helps you with achieving Infrastructure as Code (IaC). The orchestration space
is very green, but I think Terraform is the standout option.

This repository contains a terraform module for provisioning EC2-based Spot
Instances on AWS, specifically for Deep Learning workloads on [Amazon's GPU
instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/gpu.html), by
taking advantage of automation and friendly declarative configurations.

*Development and testing was done on a macOS High Sierra version 10.13.3*

## Table of Contents
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Configurations](#configuration)
    * [AWS Key Pair](#aws-key-pair)
    * [Variables](#variables)
    * [Amazon Machine Image](#amazon-machine-image)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks)
    * [Debugging](#debugging)
* [Future Work](#future-work)
* [Other Resources](#other-resources)
    * [Terraform](#terraform)
    * [Deep Learning on AWS](#deep-learning-on-aws)
* [Authors](#authors)
* [License](#license)

## Requirements
* [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) (tested on v0.11.7)
* [Amazon Web Services CLI (aws-cli)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)
* [AWS Key
Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair)

**Note: Terraform and aws-cli can be installed with `brew install` on Mac.**

## Configuration
#### AWS Key Pair
The instructions for creating an AWS Key Pair are
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair).
This key needs be created in the corresponding AWS region you are working in.
The name of the key pair has to be the same as the one listed in the AWS
console. You will need to specify this in the `my_key_pair_name` variable (see
Section [Variables](#variables)).

<p align="left">
  <center><img src="images/aws_key_pair.png" width="430" title="AWS Key
Pair"></center>
  <center><i>AWS Key Pair in the AWS Management Console.</i></center>
</p>

#### Variables
This demo terraform script creates makes a Spot Instance request for a
`p2.xlarge` in AWS and allows you to connect to a Jupyter notebook running on
the server. This script could be more generic, but for now its only been tested
on my own AWS setup, so I'm open to more contribution to the repo :)

In the `variables.tf` file some of the variables you can configure for your
setup are:
```sh
    * my_region                 (default = us-east-1) # N. Virginia
    * avail_zone                (default = us-east-1a)
    * my_key_pair_name          (default = my-test)
    * instance_type             (default = p2.xlarge)
    * num_instances             (default = 1)
    * spot_price                (default = 0.30)
    * ebs_volume_size           (default = 1)
    * ami_id                    (default = ami-dff741a0) # AWS Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu)
```

**Note: The minimum spotPrice should follow the [AWS EC2 Spot Instances
Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/spot/pricing/), otherwise your request will
not be fulfilled because the price is too low.**

#### Amazon Machine Image
In this demo, I am using the [AWS Deep Learning
AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B077GCH38C), because its free and
provides you with `Anaconda` environments for most of the popular DL frameworks
(see image below). Also, the software cost is **$0.00/hr**, and you don't have
to worry about installing the NVIDIA drivers and DL software (i.e. TensorFlow,
PyTorch, MXNet, Caffe, Caffe2, etc) manually.


<p align="left">
  <center><img src="images/deeplearning_ami.png" width="430" title="AWS Deep
Learning AMI"></center>
  <center><i>AWS Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu) - a list of conda environments for
deep learning frameworks optimized for CUDA/MKL.</i></center>
</p>


## Quick Start
1. Check to see if Terraform is installed properly:
```sh
terraform
```

2. Initalize the working directory containing the Terraform configuration files:
```sh
terraform init
```

3. Validate the syntax of the terraform files:
```sh
terraform validate
```

4. Create the terraform execution plan, which is an easy way to check what
actions are needed to be taken to get the desired state:
```sh
terraform plan
```

4. Provision the instance(s) by applying the changes to get the desired state
based on the plan:
```sh
terraform apply
```
<p align="center">
  <center><img src="images/aws_request_2_spot_instances.png" width="430"
title="AWS Deep Learning AMI"></center>
  <center><i>Sample output showing requests for two p2.xlarge AWS EC2 Spot
instances.</i></center>
</p>

6. Login to your EC2 Management Console and you should see your [Spot Instance
Request](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-requests.html).
You should also see all of the instances and  volumes that were provisioned.

7. Once done with the infrastructure, you can destroy it:
```sh
terraform destroy
```

## Tips and Tricks
#### Debugging
1. Step 3 in the [Quick Start](#quick-start) section allows you to view the
output configurations in the terminal, but you can also save the execution plan
for debugging purposes:
```sh
terraform plan -refresh=true -input=False -lock=true
-out=./proposed-changes.plan
```

2. View the output from the `.plan` file in human-readable format:
```sh
terraform show proposed-changes.plan
```

## Future Work
* Terraform module for provisioning AWS On-Demand instances
* Terraform module for setting up an AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
cluster and run a service on the cluster

## Other resources
#### Terraform
* [Terraform Introduction](https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html)
* [The Terraform Book](https://terraformbook.com/)

#### Deep Learning on AWS
* [Keras with GPU on Amazon EC2 – a step-by-step
instruction](https://hackernoon.com/keras-with-gpu-on-amazon-ec2-a-step-by-step-instruction-4f90364e49ac)
* [Benchmarking Tensorflow Performance and Cost Across Different GPU
Options](https://medium.com/initialized-capital/benchmarking-tensorflow-performance-and-cost-across-different-gpu-options-69bd85fe5d58)

## Authors
Module is maintained by [Vithursan Thangarasa](https://github.com/vithursant)

## License
[Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004](http://www.apache.org/licenses/)
(See LICENSE for full details).

Commit message:

Add aws configure to steps

README.md, after:

# Provisioning AWS Spot Instances for Deep Learning using Terraform

Terraform is an open source tool developed by Hashicorp, which allows you to
codify your infrastructure. This means that you can write configuration files,
instead of having to click around in the AWS or any cloud provider's console.
The files are in pure text format, and therefore can be shared, versioned,
peer-reviewed just like any other code. Basically, Terraform is a tool that
helps you with achieving Infrastructure as Code (IaC). The orchestration space
is very green, but I think Terraform is the standout option.

This repository contains a terraform module for provisioning EC2-based Spot
Instances on AWS, specifically for Deep Learning workloads on [Amazon's GPU
instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dlami/latest/devguide/gpu.html), by
taking advantage of automation and friendly declarative configurations.

*Development and testing was done on a macOS High Sierra version 10.13.3*

## Table of Contents
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Configurations](#configuration)
    * [AWS Key Pair](#aws-key-pair)
    * [Variables](#variables)
    * [Amazon Machine Image](#amazon-machine-image)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks)
    * [Debugging](#debugging)
* [Future Work](#future-work)
* [Other Resources](#other-resources)
    * [Terraform](#terraform)
    * [Deep Learning on AWS](#deep-learning-on-aws)
* [Authors](#authors)
* [License](#license)

## Requirements
* [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) (tested on v0.11.7)
* [Amazon Web Services CLI (aws-cli)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)
* [AWS Key
Pair](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair)

**Note: Terraform and aws-cli can be installed with `brew install` on Mac.**

## Configuration
#### AWS Key Pair
The instructions for creating an AWS Key Pair are
[here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html#having-ec2-create-your-key-pair).
This key needs be created in the corresponding AWS region you are working in.
The name of the key pair has to be the same as the one listed in the AWS
console. You will need to specify this in the `my_key_pair_name` variable (see
Section [Variables](#variables)).

<p align="left">
  <center><img src="images/aws_key_pair.png" width="430" title="AWS Key
Pair"></center>
  <center><i>AWS Key Pair in the AWS Management Console.</i></center>
</p>

#### Variables
This demo terraform script creates makes a Spot Instance request for a
`p2.xlarge` in AWS and allows you to connect to a Jupyter notebook running on
the server. This script could be more generic, but for now its only been tested
on my own AWS setup, so I'm open to more contribution to the repo :)

In the `variables.tf` file some of the variables you can configure for your
setup are:
```sh
    * my_region                 (default = us-east-1)       # N. Virginia
    * avail_zone                (default = us-east-1a)
    * my_key_pair_name          (default = my-test)
    * instance_type             (default = p2.xlarge)
    * num_instances             (default = 1)
    * spot_price                (default = 0.30)
    * ebs_volume_size           (default = 1)
    * ami_id                    (default = ami-dff741a0)    # AWS Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu)
```

**Note: The minimum spotPrice should follow the [AWS EC2 Spot Instances
Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/spot/pricing/), otherwise your request will
not be fulfilled because the price is too low.**

#### Amazon Machine Image
In this demo, I am using the [AWS Deep Learning
AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B077GCH38C), because its free and
provides you with `Anaconda` environments for most of the popular DL frameworks
(see image below). Also, the software cost is **$0.00/hr**, and you don't have
to worry about installing the NVIDIA drivers and DL software (i.e. TensorFlow,
PyTorch, MXNet, Caffe, Caffe2, etc) manually.


<p align="left">
  <center><img src="images/deeplearning_ami.png" width="430" title="AWS Deep
Learning AMI"></center>
  <center><i>AWS Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu) - a list of conda environments for
deep learning frameworks optimized for CUDA/MKL.</i></center>
</p>


## Quick Start
1. Configure your `AWS Access Key`, `AWS Secret Access Key`, and `region name`:
```sh
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID [None]: ********
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: ********
Default region name [None]: us-east-1
Default output format [None]: 
```

2. Check to see if Terraform is installed properly:
```sh
$ terraform
```

3. Initalize the working directory containing the Terraform configuration files:
```sh
$ terraform init
```

4. Validate the syntax of the terraform files:
```sh
$ terraform validate
```

5. Create the terraform execution plan, which is an easy way to check what
actions are needed to be taken to get the desired state:
```sh
$ terraform plan
```

6. Provision the instance(s) by applying the changes to get the desired state
based on the plan:
```sh
$ terraform apply
```
<p align="center">
  <center><img src="images/aws_request_2_spot_instances.png" width="430"
title="AWS Deep Learning AMI"></center>
  <center><i>Sample output showing requests for two p2.xlarge AWS EC2 Spot
instances.</i></center>
</p>

7. Login to your EC2 Management Console and you should see your [Spot Instance
Request](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-requests.html). You should also see all of the instances and  volumes that were provisioned.

8. Once done with the infrastructure, you can destroy it:
```sh
$ terraform destroy
```

## Tips and Tricks
#### Debugging
1. Step 3 in the [Quick Start](#quick-start) section allows you to view the
output configurations in the terminal, but you can also save the execution plan
for debugging purposes:
```sh
$ terraform plan -refresh=true -input=False -lock=true
-out=./proposed-changes.plan
```

2. View the output from the `.plan` file in human-readable format:
```sh
$ terraform show proposed-changes.plan
```

## Future Work
* Terraform module for provisioning AWS On-Demand instances
* Terraform module for setting up an AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
cluster and run a service on the cluster

## Other resources
#### Terraform
* [Terraform Introduction](https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html)
* [The Terraform Book](https://terraformbook.com/)

#### Deep Learning on AWS
* [Keras with GPU on Amazon EC2 – a step-by-step
instruction](https://hackernoon.com/keras-with-gpu-on-amazon-ec2-a-step-by-step-instruction-4f90364e49ac)
* [Benchmarking Tensorflow Performance and Cost Across Different GPU
Options](https://medium.com/initialized-capital/benchmarking-tensorflow-performance-and-cost-across-different-gpu-options-69bd85fe5d58)

## Authors
Module is maintained by [Vithursan Thangarasa](https://github.com/vithursant)

## License
[Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004](http://www.apache.org/licenses/)
(See LICENSE for full details).
